B. Behavior
A. Can you walk us through the process you used to develop and execute the Global
Siri roadmap at Apple?
A. Situation - Ya, it’s a large undertaking that takes place quarterly with another one
annually, mainly in relation to WWDC. So a lot of planning, and a lot of planning to
plan. The MLSEE org oversaw all Siri use cases on all devices/iOS. Think of it as a
giant wrapper around the entire Apple ecosystem. My role was not prioritizing what
those use cases were but planning for the tooling and resourcing to test those
features, with a focus on functional testing at a few levels (unit test reporting,
integration testing, E2E testing being the primary focus )
B. Task - Our org has around 100 engineers total and maybe 400 contractors. It starts
from the problem space or in this case the use cases for the next release. There is
an initial prioritization and knowledge sharing with my VP and manager and then
with the Engineering managers based out of Seattle, Cupertino, Japan and Madrid.
C. Action - These use cases are aggregated based on that are currently supported and
what additional functionality we might need (context setup, test running, assertion
capability, reporting). Then that list is grouped for the engineer team that owns that
particular domain. I have as many working sessions as possible then for scoping
and resourcing to support those use cases and aggregate it back up. See if/where
there are resourcing gaps. Fashion is never finished, and the use cases have
probably changed so there are a couple cycles of this. For the annual process it
takes between 2-3 weeks but for quarterly we’ve got pretty good at it and can have
what we need in a week. At the end of this process is a giant keynote presentation
that usually the engineering program manager presented and I tagged in my
engineer partners whenever they would have a better answer.
D. Response - We always met the process, however quarterly planning is a severe
process investment to do right. Honestly, I just like an annual process that you
report on and make changes in prioritization as they come up.
B. How did you ensure that the ML infrastructure you designed at Amazon met the
needs of diverse problem spaces?
A. Situation - A lot of meeting with stakeholders and being a potential customer of it
ourselves on the team I was on. I was part of a newly created org called PARS that
was an aggregation of a bunch of different orgs to track all risk and safety issues
across the Amazon catalog. This org had many different ML projects (mainly
classification problems) and we found, through attending org-level reviews, these
teams were not following best practices (dataset, model versioning, adequate
metric reporting) and leadership was becoming frustrated with missed deadlines orsort of incomprehensible results in order to go/no-go decisions. The main culprit
was using offline evaluation metrics, without any human evaluation to launch
products.
B. Task - came from the now defunct research org of Amazon called CoreML and then
over at AWS in their AI org so was familiar with how easy it would be to help with
the undifferentiated problems the org was dealing with.
C. Action - So, I met with all of my partner engineering groups hearing what their
problems were, with an average time of 10 weeks experimentation-to-deployment.I
then wrote a PRFAQ on an ML infrastructure stack, built on SageMaker, to track 5-6
stages of ml development 1) Data and data heritage 2) EDA, ETL and artifact
storage 3) model development and artifact tracking 4) deployment through an API or
offline 4) Alerting 5) Online Evaluation (A/B test through the endpoint)
D. Response - We managed to lower that barrier to entry from 10 weeks to 1 week for
presentation to leadership in the required format.
C. What was the most significant challenge your "Tiger Team" faced at Apple, and
how did you lead the team to overcome it?
A. Situation - We run roughly 450k tests a week that, among many things, are grouped
by test failures or valid product failures. A persistent problem when I joined the org,
was the ratio of false positives (test failures) vs. actuals (product failures).
B. Task - I was tasked with leading a team across 4 orgs to scope, investigate, and
construct recommendations to leadership on how test stability could be improved.
C. Action - I identified 5 subject matter experts, had a kickoff meeting and then long
working sessions as we broke down the test failures issue into larger buckets that
we could make generalized recommendations. The recommendations ranged from
limiting sleep methods, additional component testing, assignment of test DRIs for
each product team to assure they are building testable products.
D. Response - It was a long process to get these recommendations put into effect,
however a year later we were hitting our girl of 95% test stability for trains/OS
releases.
D. How do you typically gather and incorporate client feedback into product
development?
A. Situation - Through a few methods 1) listening sessions on problems that are not yet
solved 2) in bulk through qualitative methods like qualtric surveys with likert scaling
and 3) quantitative methods to identify where issues are occurring, e.g. high
predicted risk for amazon products and 4) Just using the product a lot to identify
gaps.
B. Task - Some examples of this were the quarterly roadmap planning with all the
engineer orgs at Apple, and another was creation of page ranking at Warner Bros
Discovery (we could see our users wanted to engage more but there were a lot of
trash shows they were being shown besides what was relevant)
C. Action -
D. Response -
E. Can you give an example of a complex technical strategy you had to communicate
to non-technical stakeholders? How did you approach this?
A. Situation - Ya, there have been a few. One had to do with an all hands at Warner
Brother Discovery on how we were incorporating additional features through a
graphdb for the recommender system on the streaming service.
B. Task/Action - We used a hierarchical session-based RNN at the time. As it was an
All Hands, I first needed to clearly state how recommenders worked (show, person,
interaction), how our service worked and then what changes we’d be making to
incorporate more user features to improve recommendations. The purpose was
buy-in but also to just showcase our work to everyone.C. Action - From there, it was showing A/B tests we’ve done on how improved
recommendations were from a group of testers that we have LiveOn our beta build.
D. Response - Positive response and we went ahead, and even including some item-
based additional features into our model since this was shown as such low hanging
fruit to increase engagement.
F. What do you see as the biggest challenges in AI safety today, and how would you
address them in this role?
A. Situation
-
The biggest challenge is staying aligned with a dynamic Overton window
that swings between the utility and dangers quite quickly.
B. Task
-
I’d address this issue through collaboration and transparency both internal to
OpenAI and externally on how users are interacting with these models post-release.
The preparedness framework does a good job with the high level categories
(Cybersecurity, CBRN, Persuasion, Model Autonomy), but providing drill down
metrics on emerging trends around those categories could provide some insight on
driving AI safety with OpenAI partners.
C. Action
-
From those insights, policy decisions on how to disincentivize, stop or pre-
empt could be created altogether.
G. Describe a situation where you had to adjust your communication style to
effectively convey your product vision to different audiences.
A. Situation - I gave regular 2-3 hour classes called ML4ProductManagers that ran
through common use cases, how to framework ML-driven projects etc. I was asked
to present this to a leadership group (group of VPs and directors) and recognized I
needed to make some adjustments.
B. Task - The current deck was focused on the PM’s ownership area such as
identifying problems, solutions, requirement writing, analysis, etc… whereas
leadership would be more focused on how to ideate and validate projects being
presented to them for funding and making trade-off decisions in a stochastic
environment.
C. Action - I made these changes
D. Response - The class went great and even had a director reach out to me
afterwards on partnership opportunities for projects that I was working on in the
class (RallyPoint suicide prevention)
H. What methods do you use to stay informed about market trends and competitive
offerings in the AI/ML space?
A. Subject Matter Experts (Andrej Karpathy, 2 minute papers, NeurIps)
B. Frontier model updates and testing it out myself
C. Subreddits, like Ollama’s
C. Apple (Current)
A. AIML/Siri
A. For the better part of this year and the past year I worked on building out testing
frameworks and automated testing for Apple Intelligence (AI) through a number of
initiatives, namely related to Apple Intelligence. It has gone through about 4
complete re-architectures so has been a lively space.
A. Nuts and bolts work was tracking requirements to ensure we had automated
testing capability (minimum functionality, context setup, working APIs and
assertion capability) and coverage with daily stand ups with the engineering
team on bringup of those features and tests. This scope of work was then
extended to not only AIML use cases, but also the SWE org and all AppEntity
and AppIntents (roughly 600+) across component, integration and E2E testing
dimensions. The reason why the AIML org owned this instead of SWE, was
mainly due to the more capable testing frameworks the Siri org had (due to
necessity of our E2E testing mandate).A. Situation. Apple was preparing to announce AppleIntelligence at WWDC
and giving AppIntent capability for 1P and 3P apps with in-App context. So
what do I mean by that… from a 1P perspective this might mean sending
Messages context to your on-device LLM for summarization or for 3P this
might mean ordering Doordash through voice and the related function calling
needed there
B. Task. Provide TimCook directs with 2x weekly reports on on
AppleIntelligence use case pass rates based on automated functional
testing. And this was broken down into some sub-categories of what
features are actually testable and actual pass/fails and then grouped by
domain (Phone, Messages, other 40+), because a fun part of the way Apple
operates and the scale we were at was that were no deadlines for when
certain features would be available during the development period. You
knew it could be within a month and then a feature flag might be turned on
at some point.
Some large challenges to this was that requirements and dependencies are
changing everyday, as well as the underlying build quality (iOS and macOS)
and platform. Due to these known issues, we opted to build the testing
pyramid up from component testing (AppIntent functionality) —> integ
testing (AppIntent + Orchestrator LLM) —> E2E testing (Utterance input to
Output) to hillclimb on what is actually ready for customers.
C. Action. We have a team of 15 engineers (across Cupertino, Ottawa, Seattle,
Tokyo and Madrid) and I built out a requirements document for the use
cases, context required, expected results and documentation resources and
points of contact. By the way, feel free to stop me if I unintentionally go into
Apple indoctrination territory and use some unknown acryonyms.
So, we had a goal of completing golden use case test bringup within 1.5
weeks, integ testing the following week and E2E testing the week after that
for a total of 3 x 600 = 1800 automated test cases that needed to be stable
D. Response. Proud to say we hit that goal by largely avoiding the dependency
nightmare we were running into with attempting to create only E2E tests for
a very fragile, early stage system. This was then used by leadership to guide
what was included in WWDC and in the next iOS/macOS release. Happy to
answer any questions.
B. Some other projects that I have built Proofs of Concept are:
A. LLM-based Triage
A. Situation. Apple code quality’s main issue is signal through all of the
noise. There was a quote that iOS is roughly 1 billion lines of code. When
issues arise, how can an engineer quickly isolate and identify the issue,
determine the blast radius and pull in partners/fix the issue?
B. Task. Create a PoC that finetunes an Apple-specific model that reads in
sysdiagnose info, org information and high level documentation to create
3 possible Root Causes. I did this by using the mlx library to train and the
github api to pull the necessary data for all orgs and repos. Then wrote a
function calling script to query Apple’s entire org structure, convert to a
graphdb and return the likely owning team and Points of Contact/slack
handles
C. Action. I built a simple streamlit app that fed this data in, hosted it on a
spare Mac Studio we had sitting in our Madrid office (with ollama) and
offered it up to some partner engineering teams to drop radars (lira
tickets) into to see if it helped.
D. Response. For the top prediction, it was accurate 72% of the time
however what I quickly realized doing this at scale was that the chieflimiting factor was for our partner engineering teams. They were awash
with tickets. The issue is all of the noise and priorities.
B. LLM-based evaluation
A. Situation. Apple spends A LOT of money on manual testing for new
features and also regression testing for fairly simple use cases.
B. Task. Lower the burden on manual testers
C. Action. I ideated with an engineer in my org on a very simple Input
Utterance and Output pair assertion capability. So what you say to Siri
and what the output is (text response, API action and on screen
references) to assert on whether
D. Response. Awe realized that the chief constraint is not in identification of
these bugs, due to iOS’s 1+ billion code base… the chief constraint is
bandwidth/attention of the owning product engineers
C. Unified Siri Testing (UST) a framework of helper functions to establish on-
device context necessary for testing (e.g. photos or texts present on device
to test reply functionality or having flight details in an email for Spotlight to
then index)
D. Warner Bros. Discovery
A. Recommender systems
A. Page Ranking
A. Situation. Needed parity with competitors for personalized page creation (the
order of the rails that you see) for streaming customers. We saw lifts of up to
3-5% for personalized rails (those horizontal strips that you click through) on key
engagement metrics, so anticipated the same or greater return
B. Task. Ideate, review, resource, execute and track the launch of page ranking for
Warner Bros Discovery streaming service from 0-1. Tactically this meant writing
a PRFAQ, reviewing it with my own leadership, then broader stakeholder groups
until finally reviewing it with the executive team. O
C. Action. Once we had buy-in I created a business doc for the functional and
non-functional requirements that went a level deeper than the PRFAQ and was
engineer-focused. Additionally, met with the PMs from the partner teams (e.g.
our upstream data lake team and downstream editorial team) on the timeline
and requirements to ensure there weren’t any gaps. From there it was execution
with daily standup and weekly check-ins with leadership. Some challenges we
came across nearing to the delivery date was the lack of an inherent idea of a
cell or rail ID as those were amorphous and ever changing either due to manual
or existing rule heuristics. That data team had challenges in meeting that
deadline, due to some GDPR related reasons and we would not hit our deadline
due to this. So we were faced with the old problem of 1) de-scope 2) extend the
deadline 3) add more engineers (which sometimes slows things down or 4)
muscle down as much as possible. They said they would need an additional
week and we dove into the details on the work needed and estimated it would
take roughly just as long from pulling engineers over from other projects and
onboard them, so I presented to leadership on the choices and justifications and
ended up pushing out the A/B by a week.
D. Response. The A/B test results resulted in a 5% lift in Minutes Watched per
customer over the course of the 1 month A/B test and we expanded it all other
pages besides the landing page/hero page. We then rolled out to other locales
(EU, APAC and South America) while making adjustments to our opt out system
for GDPR compliance in the EU.
B. Because You Watched
C. MetricsA. Minutes Watched (to limit prioritizing clickbait like using Click through Rate or
impressions, used a hierarchical RNN)
B. Precison@k
C. Recall@k
D. F1@k
E. NCDG (Normalized Cumulative Discounted Gain)
E. Amazon
A. ML Deployment Platform (ML Commons)
A. Lots of bespoke ML models being created that did not follow best practices
(versioning, offline and online evaluation tracking, logging and alerting) for a lot of
undifferentiated work.
B. Product Safety classification - particularly an issue due to the rise of 3rd party
popularity and inquiries from the California Product Safety Council (CPSC)
A. Needed to define/identify what was safe/unsafe based on amazon’s data lake. Then
safety classifications for each. Then from time of purchase to safety incident based
on historical data. This was working with the quality assurance org at Amazon, ML
science team and engineer team to product ionize.
B. Chained model: 1) Binary 2) Safety classification 3) Likelihood of occurrence in next
3 months. Offline evaluation for the past year was that this was 82% accurate at a
time where safety was a top issue within Amazon. We launched it in the product
categories where had the most safety incidents historically
C. Impact was that we launched this in our highest risk product areas (supplements,
electronics, etc.) Then had associates reach out to these sellers to request product
testing where we saw a significant reduction (1.2%) over a 3 month period of these
safety incidents
F. AWS
A. AWS Embark
A. This was born out of Machine Learning University as we were re-orged over to AWS
to offer this to high profile AWS clients (basically people who spent a lot. Military,
Warner Bros, etc.). I drew up a roadmap for generalizing this beyond Amazon-
specific use cases so it could be applicable to each customer, first starting with an
ideation workshop, then classes on how to solve these problems, then partnering
with a solution architect to create a PoC to help make a go/no-go decision.
B. Machine Learning University
A. Accelerator program, 3-day program focused on a specific ML domain like NLP,
computer vision, decision trees and a lot more.
B. Created a kaggle-like leaderboard to crowdsource regression and classification use
cases
G. Safety Specifics
A. Apple
A. Quality
A. Ensuring that the functionality of Siri is doing what we think and its doing,
correctly an ongoing basis for every OS update that is released as well as
ensuring regression testing. Mainly related to agents behavior (Apple
Intelligence)
B. Safety
A. Have had a number of safety incidents related to Siri’s ability to call emergency
numbers come through and I drove the Root Cause Analysis as these high
visibility issues came in. The issue came down to an ASR issue from a model
change
B. Warner Bros DiscoveryA. Rating appropriateness for kids across geographies, e.g. a show, like ghost hunters
is rated for kids in the US, however in the Brazilian market this would be considered
adult. Incorporating this into our recommender system filters.
C. Amazon
A. Logo identification
A. ResNet transfer learning for identification of counterfeit brands being sold on
Amazon
B. PARS ML Commons, ERICA
C. Lawrence (Global Trade Compliance) - basically extracting and mapping all trade
compliance regulations to an amazon product automatically.

Behavior
Can you walk us through the process you used to develop and execute the Global Siri roadmap at Apple?
Situation - Ya, it’s a large undertaking that takes place quarterly with another one annually, mainly in relation to WWDC. So a lot of planning, and a lot of planning to plan. The MLSEE org oversaw all Siri use cases on all devices/iOS. Think of it as a giant wrapper around the entire Apple ecosystem. My role was not prioritizing what those use cases were but planning for the tooling and resourcing to test those features, with a focus on functional testing at a few levels (unit test reporting, integration testing, E2E testing being the primary focus )
Task - Our org has around 100 engineers total and maybe 400 contractors. It starts from the problem space or in this case the use cases for the next release. There is an initial prioritization and knowledge sharing with my VP and manager and then with the Engineering managers based out of Seattle, Cupertino, Japan and Madrid.
Action - These use cases are aggregated based on that are currently supported and what additional functionality we might need (context setup, test running, assertion capability, reporting). Then that list is grouped for the engineer team that owns that particular domain. I have as many working sessions as possible then for scoping and resourcing to support those use cases and aggregate it back up. See if/where there are resourcing gaps. Fashion is never finished, and the use cases have probably changed so there are a couple cycles of this. For the annual process it takes between 2-3 weeks but for quarterly we’ve got pretty good at it and can have what we need in a week. At the end of this process is a giant keynote presentation that usually the engineering program manager presented and I tagged in my engineer partners whenever they would have a better answer.
Response - We always met the process, however quarterly planning is a severe process investment to do right. Honestly, I just like an annual process that you report on and make changes in prioritization as they come up.
How did you ensure that the ML infrastructure you designed at Amazon met the needs of diverse problem spaces? 
Situation - A lot of meeting with stakeholders and being a potential customer of it ourselves on the team I was on. I was part of a newly created org called PARS that was an aggregation of a bunch of different orgs to track all risk and safety issues across the Amazon catalog. This org had many different ML projects (mainly classification problems) and we found, through attending org-level reviews, these teams were not following best practices (dataset, model versioning, adequate metric reporting) and leadership was becoming frustrated with missed deadlines or sort of incomprehensible results in order to go/no-go decisions. The main culprit was using offline evaluation metrics, without any human evaluation to launch products.
Task - came from the now defunct research org of Amazon called CoreML and then over at AWS in their AI org so was familiar with how easy it would be to help with the undifferentiated problems the org was dealing with. 
Action - So, I met with all of my partner engineering groups hearing what their problems were, with an average time of 10 weeks experimentation-to-deployment.I then wrote a PRFAQ on an ML infrastructure stack, built on SageMaker, to track 5-6 stages of ml development 1) Data and data heritage 2) EDA, ETL and artifact storage 3) model development and artifact tracking 4) deployment through an API or offline 4) Alerting 5) Online Evaluation (A/B test through the endpoint)
Response - We managed to lower that barrier to entry from 10 weeks to 1 week for presentation to leadership in the required format.
How do you typically gather and incorporate client feedback into product development?
Situation - Through a few methods 1) listening sessions on problems or opportunities that are not yet solved 2) in bulk through qualitative methods like qualtric surveys with likert scaling and 3) quantitative methods to identify where issues are occurring, e.g. high predicted risk for amazon products and 4) Just using the product a lot to identify gaps.
Task - Some examples of this were the quarterly roadmap planning with all the engineer orgs at Apple, and another was creation of page ranking at Warner Bros Discovery (we could see our users wanted to engage more but there were a lot of trash shows they were being shown besides what was relevant)
Action -
Response -
Can you give an example of a complex technical strategy you had to communicate to non-technical stakeholders? How did you approach this?
Situation - Ya, there have been a few. One had to do with an all hands at Warner Brother Discovery on how we were incorporating additional features through a graphdb for the recommender system on the streaming service.
Task/Action - We used a hierarchical session-based RNN at the time. As it was an All Hands, I first needed to clearly state how recommenders worked (show, person, interaction), how our service worked and then what changes we’d be making to incorporate more user features to improve recommendations. The purpose was buy-in but also to just showcase our work to everyone. 
Action - From there, it was showing A/B tests we’ve done on how improved recommendations were from a group of testers that we have LiveOn our beta build. 
Response - Positive response and we went ahead, and even including some item-based additional features into our model since this was shown as such low hanging fruit to increase engagement.
What do you see as the biggest challenges in AI safety today, and how would you address them in this role?
Situation - The biggest challenge is staying aligned with a dynamic Overton window that swings between the utility and dangers quite quickly. 
Task - I’d address this issue through collaboration and transparency both internal to OpenAI and externally on how users are interacting with these models post-release. The preparedness framework does a good job with the high level categories (Cybersecurity, CBRN, Persuasion, Model Autonomy), but providing drill down metrics on emerging trends around those categories could provide some insight on driving AI safety with OpenAI partners.
Action - From those insights, policy decisions on how to disincentivize, stop or pre-empt could be created altogether. 
Describe a situation where you had to adjust your communication style to effectively convey your product vision to different audiences.
Situation - I gave regular 2-3 hour classes called ML4ProductManagers that ran through common use cases, how to framework ML-driven projects etc. I was asked to present this to a leadership group (group of VPs and directors) and recognized I needed to make some adjustments.
Task - The current deck was focused on the PM’s ownership area such as identifying problems, solutions, requirement writing, analysis, etc… whereas leadership would be more focused on how to ideate and validate projects being presented to them for funding and making trade-off decisions in a stochastic environment.
Action - I made these changes
Response - The class went great and even had a director reach out to me afterwards on partnership opportunities for projects that I was working on in the class (RallyPoint suicide prevention)
Apple (Current)
AIML/Siri
For the better part of this year and the past year I’ve worked on building out testing frameworks and automated testing for Apple Intelligence (AI) through a number of initiatives, namely related to Apple Intelligence. It has gone through about 4 complete re-architectures so has been a lively space.
Nuts and bolts work was tracking requirements to ensure we had automated testing capability (minimum functionality, context setup, working APIs and assertion capability) and coverage with daily stand ups with the engineering team on bringup of those features and tests. This scope of work was then extended to not only AIML use cases, but also the SWE org and all AppEntity and AppIntents (roughly 600+) across component, integration and E2E testing dimensions. The reason why the AIML org owned this instead of SWE, was mainly due to the more capable testing frameworks the Siri org had (due to necessity of our E2E testing mandate).
Situation. Apple was preparing to announce AppleIntelligence at WWDC and giving AppIntent capability for 1P and 3P apps with in-App context. So what do I mean by that… from a 1P perspective this might mean sending Messages context to your on-device LLM for summarization or for 3P this might mean ordering Doordash through voice and the related function calling needed there
Task. Provide TimCook directs with 2x weekly reports on on AppleIntelligence use case pass rates based on automated functional testing. And this was broken down into some sub-categories of what features are actually testable and actual pass/fails and then grouped by domain (Phone, Messages, other 40+), because a fun part of the way Apple operates and the scale we were at was that were no deadlines for when certain features would be available during the development period. You knew it could be within a month and then a feature flag might be turned on at some point. Some large challenges to this was that requirements and dependencies are changing everyday, as well as the underlying build quality (iOS and macOS) and platform. Due to these known issues, we opted to build the testing pyramid up from component testing (AppIntent functionality) —> integ testing (AppIntent + Orchestrator LLM) —> E2E testing (Utterance input to Output) to hillclimb on what is actually ready for customers.
Action. We have a team of 15 engineers (across Cupertino, Ottawa, Seattle, Tokyo and Madrid) and I built out a requirements document for the use cases, context required, expected results and documentation resources and points of contact. By the way, feel free to stop me if I unintentionally go into Apple indoctrination territory and use some unknown acryonyms. So, we had a goal of completing golden use case test bringup within 1.5 weeks, integ testing the following week and E2E testing the week after that for a total of 3 x 600 = 1800 automated test cases that needed to be stable 
Response. Proud to say we hit that goal by largely avoiding the dependency nightmare we were running into with attempting to create only E2E tests for a very fragile, early stage system. This was then used by leadership to guide what was included in WWDC and in the next iOS/macOS release. Happy to answer any questions. 
Some other projects that I have built Proofs of Concept are:
LLM-based Triage
Situation. Apple code quality’s main issue is signal through all of the noise. There was a quote that iOS is roughly 1 billion lines of code. When issues arise, how can an engineer quickly isolate and identify the issue, determine the blast radius and pull in partners/fix the issue?
Task. Create a PoC that finetunes an Apple-specific model that reads in sysdiagnose info, org information and high level documentation to create 3 possible Root Causes. I did this by using the mlx library to train and the github api to pull the necessary data for all orgs and repos. Then wrote a function calling script to query Apple’s entire org structure, convert to a graphdb and return the likely owning team and Points of Contact/slack handles
Action. I built a simple streamlit app that fed this data in, hosted it on a spare Mac Studio we had sitting in our Madrid office (with ollama) and offered it up to some partner engineering teams to drop radars (lira tickets) into to see if it helped. 
Response. For the top prediction, it was accurate 72% of the time however what I quickly realized doing this at scale was that the chief limiting factor was for our partner engineering teams. They were awash with tickets. The issue is all of the noise and priorities. 
LLM-based evaluation
Situation. Apple spends A LOT of money on manual testing for new features and also regression testing for fairly simple use cases.
Task. Lower the burden on manual testers
Action. I ideated with an engineer in my org on a very simple Input Utterance and Output pair assertion capability. So what you say to Siri and what the output is (text response, API action and on screen references) to assert on whether 
Response. Awe realized that the chief constraint is not in identification of these bugs, due to iOS’s 1+ billion code base… the chief constraint is bandwidth/attention of the owning product engineers
Unified Siri Testing (UST) a framework of helper functions to establish on-device context necessary for testing (e.g. photos or texts present on device to test reply functionality or having flight details in an email for Spotlight to then index)
Warner Bros. Discovery
Recommender systems
Page Ranking
Situation. Needed parity with competitors for personalized page creation (the order of the rails that you see) for streaming customers. We saw lifts of up to 3-5% for personalized rails (those horizontal strips that you click through) on key engagement metrics, so anticipated the same or greater return
Task. Ideate, review, resource, execute and track the launch of page ranking for Warner Bros Discovery streaming service from 0-1. Tactically this meant writing a PRFAQ, reviewing it with my own leadership, then broader stakeholder groups until finally reviewing it with the executive team. O
Action. Once we had buy-in I created a business doc for the functional and non-functional requirements that went a level deeper than the PRFAQ and was engineer-focused. Additionally, met with the PMs from the partner teams (e.g. our upstream data lake team and downstream editorial team) on the timeline and requirements to ensure there weren’t any gaps. From there it was execution with daily standup and weekly check-ins with leadership. Some challenges we came across nearing to the delivery date was the lack of an inherent idea of a cell or rail ID as those were amorphous and ever changing either due to manual or existing rule heuristics. That data team had challenges in meeting that deadline, due to some GDPR related reasons and we would not hit our deadline due to this. So we were faced with the old problem of 1) de-scope 2) extend the deadline 3) add more engineers (which sometimes slows things down or 4) muscle down as much as possible. They said they would need an additional week and we dove into the details on the work needed and estimated it would take roughly just as long from pulling engineers over from other projects and onboard them, so I presented to leadership on the choices and justifications and ended up pushing out the A/B by a week. 
Response. The A/B test results resulted in a 5% lift in Minutes Watched per customer over the course of the 1 month A/B test and we expanded it all other pages besides the landing page/hero page. We then rolled out to other locales (EU, APAC and South America) while making adjustments to our opt out system for GDPR compliance in the EU. 
Because You Watched
Metrics
Minutes Watched (to limit prioritizing clickbait like using Click through Rate or impressions, used a hierarchical RNN)
Precison@k
Recall@k
F1@k
NCDG (Normalized Cumulative Discounted Gain)
Amazon
ML Deployment Platform (ML Commons)
Lots of bespoke ML models being created that did not follow best practices (versioning, offline and online evaluation tracking, logging and alerting) for a lot of undifferentiated work.
Product Safety classification - particularly an issue due to the rise of 3rd party popularity and inquiries from the California Product Safety Council (CPSC)
Needed to define/identify what was safe/unsafe based on amazon’s data lake. Then safety classifications for each. Then from time of purchase to safety incident based on historical data. This was working with the quality assurance org at Amazon, ML science team and engineer team to product ionize. 
Chained model: 1) Binary 2) Safety classification 3) Likelihood of occurrence in next 3 months. Offline evaluation for the past year was that this was 82% accurate at a time where safety was a top issue within Amazon. We launched it in the product categories where had the most safety incidents historically
Impact was that we launched this in our highest risk product areas (supplements, electronics, etc.) Then had associates reach out to these sellers to request product testing where we saw a significant reduction (1.2%) over a 3 month period of these safety incidents
AWS
AWS Embark
This was born out of Machine Learning University as we were re-orged over to AWS to offer this to high profile AWS clients (basically people who spent a lot. Military, Warner Bros, etc.). I drew up a roadmap for generalizing this beyond Amazon-specific use cases so it could be applicable to each customer, first starting with an ideation workshop, then classes on how to solve these problems, then partnering with a solution architect to create a PoC to help make a go/no-go decision.
Machine Learning University
Accelerator program, 3-day program focused on a specific ML domain like NLP, computer vision, decision trees and a lot more. 
Created a kaggle-like leaderboard to crowdsource regression and classification use cases

Tell me about a time you led a complex technical project

### **Example: Page Ranking Initiative at Warner Bros. Discovery**


**Situation:**
When I joined Warner Bros. Discovery, I was tasked with leading a critical project to enhance the personalization of our streaming platform through what we called North/South or Top/Bottom ranking. The goal was to optimize the vertical content ordering from top to bottom (those grouping rows of shows and movies) displayed to users, making them more relevant and engaging. However, the existing system had significant limitations. Specifically, there was no concept of a unique rail ID, which made it impossible to track and personalize the rails consistently. These rails were generated in multiple ways: manually by editorial teams, through automated filtering rules, or dynamically by our show recommender system, which refreshed content on a predetermined cadence, usually every 2mins. This complexity created challenges in ensuring a seamless and personalized user experience across the platform.

**Task:**
For this I needed to ideate, review, resource, execute and track the launch of page ranking for Warner Bros Discovery streaming service from 0-1, working with my principal engineer partner. Tactically this meant writing a PRFAQ, reviewing it with my own leadership, then broader stakeholder groups until finally reviewing it with the executive team. Once we got past that stage, I created a business requirements doc and began review sessions across several teams, including my tech org (which spanned three teams), editorial, data lake, editorial tech, and quality and A/B testing teams. The success of this project was crucial, as it directly impacted user satisfaction and engagement on the platform.

**Action:**
To address the challenge, I led a multi-faceted approach:

1. **Rail ID Creation**: The first step was to establish a system for generating unique Rail IDs. I collaborated closely with the data lake team to create a function that combined content type, relevant attributes, timestamp, and a unique identifier for each rail and stored in the rdb. This allowed us to persistently track and manage the performance of each rail across various user sessions and different configurations. 
	- Concatenation of: Content type (e.g., shows, movies, documentaries) - Genre - Theme - Viewing history - User preferences - Seasonality - Special events or promotions

2. **Metadata Storage and Algorithm Development**: We built a comprehensive database to store additional metadata for each rail, such as importance scores, user preferences, content freshness, and engagement rates. I then worked with the engineering team to utilize a hierarchical session-based RNN rankings algorithm that would score these rails based on various factors, ensuring that the most relevant rail ordering was prioritized for each user.

3. **Cross-Functional Coordination**: Given the project's complexity, I established regular communication cadences to keep all stakeholders aligned. I held daily syncs with direct team leads and engineers to review progress against our deliverables and milestones and address any emerging issues. In addition, I conducted bi-weekly updates with senior leadership, where I focused on the strategic "What" and "Why" of our progress. This approach ensured that leadership was informed without getting bogged down in technical minutiae, but I was always ready to dive into specifics when required.

4. **Customer Feedback Integration**: To ensure our solution was customer-focused, we integrated customer watch history, some metadata into the recommender system. We experimented with different metadata inputs and optimized for various target metrics such as Hours Watched, CTR, and Impressions. For offline metrics like NDCG, Recall@10, MRR@10, and Precision@10 were used to evaluate the effectiveness of our recommendations and guide further iterations.

5. **Team Engagement and Development**: Beyond the core development activities, I facilitated brown bag sessions to keep the broader team informed about model iterations and our progress. These sessions were also instrumental in fostering cross-functional collaboration, particularly with the Editorial and Editorial Tech teams. I ensured that manual overrides for promoted rails were respected within the system, balancing business needs with the recommender’s automated outputs.

**Result:**
The project culminated in a significant enhancement to the personalization capabilities of the Warner Bros. Discovery streaming platform. The introduction of unique Rail IDs and the robust ranking algorithm led to a measurable improvement in user engagement. Specifically, our A/B testing showed a 5% increase in Minutes Watched per customer over a one-month period. This success allowed us to roll out the system across other locales, including Europe, APAC, and South America, with adjustments made for GDPR compliance where necessary. The project not only met its objectives but also laid the groundwork for future personalization initiatives.


2. **Can you discuss a time when you led a cross-functional team on a challenging project? How did you ensure alignment and successful delivery?
**Situation:**
At Apple, I was leading a critical initiative related to the Apple Intelligence project, which is basically an LLM-integrated OS, which was integral to the company's upcoming WWDC announcements. My team was responsible for building out the testing infrastructure and executing automated tests across 600+ AppEntities and AppIntents within the Apple ecosystem. This initially only included end-to-end (E2E) testing, but was expanded later to include component, integration testing as well. The challenge we faced was significant: leadership wanted us to start E2E testing early in the development process, even though the design of Apple Intelligence was still in flux and the development had barely begun. The pressure was high as the results of our work would directly impact what features could be showcased at WWDC.

**Task:**
My primary task was to ensure that we had a robust and effective testing system in place that could handle the dynamic and evolving nature of Apple Intelligence. This required not only enhancing our existing testing framework (for additional context setup, execution, assertion on LLM outputs) but also ensuring that the tests were meaningful and provided actionable insights. Given the early stage of development, the initial mandate to focus solely on E2E testing was proving unworkable, as none of the tests were passing due to underlying product and OS issues. I needed to devise a strategy that would allow us to produce reliable test results, despite the unstable and rapidly changing development environment. There were probably 4 re-architectures since the project started in 2023.

**Action:**
Recognizing the limitations of starting with E2E tests, I made the critical decision to restructure our approach. Instead of beginning with E2E testing, I proposed building up our testing pyramid—starting with component tests on behalf of the SWE teams, moving to integration tests where it connected with our LLM orchestrator, and only then conducting E2E tests. This strategy allowed us to isolate issues at the component and integration levels, providing more targeted feedback to the development teams. To implement this, I created requirements for our Unified Testing Framework to hook into lower-level components and integrations, which required a deep understanding of the product areas such as Music, Phone, and Messages, as well as their new functionalities.

To manage this expanded scope, which grew from 600 to 1800 test cases within a few months, I facilitated extensive cross-functional collaboration between the AIML and SWE organizations. This involved daily stand-ups, comprehensive documentation, and frequent communication across teams based in Cupertino, Ottawa, Seattle, Tokyo, and Madrid. Additionally, I introduced a fun solution to streamline communication: using the Quip API, I developed a system that scraped daily updates from documentation from 40 teams that was updated daily, fed them into a language model (Llama), and then provided a summarized diff to the relevant engineers where there were changed in the appendix of our standup docs. This ensured everyone was aware of changes, because it was really happening everyday, and could adjust their work accordingly, minimizing delays and confusion.

**Result:**
The strategic shift in our testing approach and the innovations we implemented paid off significantly. A lot of up front work, but we successfully built and executed 1800 automated test cases within the aggressive timeline we had set, with those tests running on a daily basis. This not only stabilized the early-stage system but also provided leadership with the confidence to decide which features to include in the WWDC announcements.


3. Describe your experience with managing complex technology projects and how you handle roadmapping and prioritization.
### **STAR Example: Designing ML Infrastructure at Amazon**
**Situation:**
While working at Amazon, I was part of a newly created organization called PARS (Product Assurance, Risk, and Safety), which aggregated multiple teams responsible for tracking risk and safety issues across Amazon’s extensive catalog. The PARS org had a diverse array of machine learning (ML) projects, primarily focused on classification tasks. However, during org-level reviews, it became evident that many teams were not adhering to best practices, particularly in areas such as dataset management, model versioning, and metric reporting. This led to significant frustration among leadership, as teams frequently missed deadlines and produced results that were difficult to interpret, leading to suboptimal go/no-go decisions. The root of the problem was the reliance on offline evaluation metrics without incorporating human evaluation, which often resulted in poor product launches.

**Task:**
Given my experience from Amazon's CoreML and AWS AI organizations, I recognized an opportunity to address these challenges by creating a robust ML infrastructure that would standardize the development process across the organization for undifferentiated work. My task was to design an infrastructure stack that could accommodate the diverse problem spaces within the PARS org, streamline the experimentation-to-deployment process, and ensure that ML projects adhered to best practices. The goal was to reduce the time from experimentation to deployment and improve the reliability and transparency of the ML models being developed.

**Action:**
To tackle this challenge, I took the following actions:

1. **Stakeholder Engagement**: I initiated a series of meetings with partner engineering teams across the organization to deeply understand their pain points. By listening to their challenges—ranging from data management to deployment inefficiencies—I gathered critical insights that would shape the infrastructure solution. These discussions highlighted that the average time from experimentation to deployment was around 10 weeks, which was unacceptable given the fast-paced nature of Amazon’s operations.

2. **PRFAQ Development**: Leveraging the information gathered, I authored a PRFAQ outlining a proposed ML infrastructure stack. This stack was designed to address the full lifecycle of ML development, from data collection to model deployment and evaluation. The key components included:
   - **Data and Heritage Tracking**: To ensure datasets were well-documented and version-controlled.
   - **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), ETL, and Artifact Storage**: To facilitate data preprocessing and maintain a centralized repository of artifacts.
   - **Model Development and Tracking**: To monitor model versions and maintain a clear lineage of model iterations.
   - **Deployment**: Offering seamless integration for both API-based and offline deployment scenarios.
   - **Alerting and Monitoring**: To provide real-time feedback on model performance.
   - **Online Evaluation (A/B Testing)**: To enable ongoing human evaluation and automated A/B testing post-deployment.

3. **Implementation**: I worked closely with the engineering teams to build this stack on top of Amazon SageMaker, which provided the scalability and flexibility required for such a diverse organization. We created workflows and templates to simplify the adoption of these best practices across different teams. Additionally, I ensured that the infrastructure was designed to be intuitive and accessible, so even teams with less ML experience could adopt it effectively. 

**Result:**
The implementation of this ML infrastructure significantly transformed the development process within the PARS organization. We held many knowledge sharing sessions to review the framework and the UI layer. We reduced the average time from experimentation to deployment from 10 weeks to just 1 week, allowing teams to iterate and innovate much faster. The standardized processes ensured that ML models were now developed with consistent best practices, improving both the quality and reliability of the outputs. Leadership was able to make better-informed go/no-go decisions, thanks to the transparency and clarity provided by the new system.

4. **How do you typically gather and incorporate client feedback into product development?

**Answer:**
"Gathering and incorporating client feedback into product development is a critical aspect of creating user-centric products that meet the needs of our customers. Throughout my career, I’ve employed a variety of methods to collect, analyze, and integrate feedback into the product development process, ensuring that the products we deliver are not only innovative but also highly relevant and valuable to our users.

**Task:** My task was to develop a feedback loop that allowed us to gather both qualitative and quantitative insights from users and use this data to refine our algorithms and improve the overall user experience. This involved setting up multiple channels for collecting feedback, including listening sessions, surveys, and data analytics, and then integrating this feedback into our product development process.

**Action:** I employed a multi-faceted approach to gathering client feedback:

1. **Listening Sessions:** with Editorial. This qualitative feedback was crucial in identifying gaps that weren’t immediately obvious from quantitative data.

2. **Surveys:** We used tools like Qualtrics to conduct large-scale surveys, collecting data from thousands of users across multiple regions. These surveys used Likert scales to measure user satisfaction with specific features, such as the 'Because You Watched' similarity rail, and provided insights into areas where users felt the platform could improve. The survey results were analyzed to identify common pain points and areas of high satisfaction, which we then used to prioritize our development efforts.

3. **Quantitative Data Analysis:** We leveraged our data analytics platform to track user interactions with the platform, such as viewing patterns, engagement rates, and dropout points. For example, by analyzing the click-through rates and minutes watched for different content recommendations, we were able to identify which algorithms were performing well and which needed improvement. We also used A/B testing to compare the effectiveness of different recommendation strategies, allowing us to make data-driven decisions on which features to roll out more broadly.

4. **Product Usage:** I personally spent a significant amount of time using the product in different regions and under different conditions. This hands-on experience allowed me to identify gaps and areas for improvement that might not have been captured by traditional feedback methods. For instance, I noticed that in some regions, the content discovery process was more cumbersome due to slower internet speeds, leading us to optimize the platform for lower bandwidth environments.

**Response:** The insights gathered from these feedback mechanisms were invaluable in shaping the development of our personalization and recommendations engine. For example, based on feedback from the Philippines, we implemented more region-specific content filters, which led to a 15% increase in user engagement in that market. Similarly, the data from our A/B tests informed the rollout of a new 'Because You Watched' rail type, which increased overall user satisfaction and engagement metrics by 10% across all regions.

Incorporating client feedback into product development is not a one-time task but an ongoing process. By establishing continuous feedback loops and ensuring that we have the tools and processes in place to act on this feedback, we were able to create a product that was not only aligned with user needs but also consistently improved based on real-world usage and preferences. This approach not only increased user satisfaction but also drove higher engagement and retention, ultimately contributing to the success of the D+ platform."

3. **What was the most significant challenge your 'Tiger Team' faced at Apple, and how did you lead the team to overcome it?

**Answer:**
"The 'Tiger Team' initiative at Apple was one of the more challenging exercises and was about a month after joining the company. I was tasked with addressing a persistent issue in the Siri organization: the high ratio of false positives in our automated testing frameworks by forming a cross functional group, analyzing and then making recommendations to Apple leadership and then implementing those. These false positives were not only consuming valuable engineering resources but were also leading to delays in product releases and reducing overall test stability.

**Situation:** The Siri organization ran approximately 450,000 tests per week across various product areas, including Music, Knowledge Graph, and operating system-specific issues. These tests were critical for ensuring that Siri functioned correctly across all devices and use cases. However, when I joined the team, there was a significant issue with test reliability. A large number of test failures were being reported as false positives—tests that indicated a problem where none existed. This issue was causing considerable frustration within the engineering teams, as they had to spend a lot of time investigating these false positives, which delayed the identification and resolution of actual product failures.

**Task:** My task was to lead a 'Tiger Team'—a cross-functional group of experts from four different organizations within Apple—to investigate the root causes of these test failures and develop recommendations for improving test stability. The goal was to reduce the false positive rate and ensure that our testing frameworks provided accurate and actionable insights.

**Action:** The first step was to assemble a team of five subject matter experts who had deep knowledge of the different components and systems involved in the testing process. We kicked off the project with a series of workshops to break down the test failures into buckets that we could systematically address. These buckets included issues like device issues, sleep methods in the test scripts causing timeouts, a large gap in component testing coverage, and the lack of designated test DRIs (Directly Responsible Individuals) for each product team to ensure that their code was in fact testable.

One of the key challenges we faced was the sheer complexity of the testing environment. For example, we identified specific areas where additional component testing could be introduced to isolate potential failures before they affected the larger system, . We also recommended changes to the testing framework itself, such as limiting the use of sleep methods that were causing timing issues and introducing more robust assertion mechanisms to improve test accuracy.

We held regular working sessions to track our progress, refine our recommendations, and prepare a final report for senior leadership. These sessions were highly collaborative. Throughout the process, I maintained close communication with stakeholders across the organization to ensure that our recommendations were aligned with broader organizational goals and priorities.

**Response:** Implement

ing the recommendations took time, but the results were well worth the effort. Within a year, we achieved our goal of 95% test stability for Siri's trains and operating system releases. This improvement not only reduced the time engineers spent investigating false positives but also allowed us to deliver more reliable and stable products to customers. The success of the 'Tiger Team' initiative demonstrated the power of cross-functional collaboration and systematic problem-solving in addressing large inderdependent, complex challenges.

1. **Can you walk us through the process you used to develop and execute the Global Siri roadmap at Apple?

**Answer:**
"Developing and executing the Global Siri roadmap at Apple was a comprehensive and highly iterative process that required a deep understanding of the product's technical requirements, cross-functional coordination, and a keen awareness of the broader organizational goals, especially in alignment with major events like the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC). The roadmap exercise took place quarterly, with a more extensive version annually in preparation for major product releases and updates.

The process began with a thorough understanding of the problem space—essentially, the use cases we needed to support in the upcoming release. These use cases spanned the entire Apple ecosystem, as Siri's functionality needed to be seamless across iOS, macOS, watchOS, and visionOS. My primary role was to plan the tooling and resourcing required to test these features, particularly focusing on functional testing at several levels, including unit testing, integration testing, and end-to-end (E2E) testing.

**Situation:** The MLSEE org, which I was part of, oversaw all Siri use cases across all devices and operating systems. This required coordination with over 100 engineers and around 400 contractors globally. The roadmap planning was a crucial part of our strategy to ensure that every Siri use case was thoroughly tested and ready for deployment.

**Task:** My task was to gather and prioritize these use cases, coordinate with engineering teams in Seattle, Cupertino, Japan, and Madrid, and ensure that we had the necessary resources and tools to test these features effectively. This involved initial prioritization discussions with my VP and manager, followed by detailed planning sessions with engineering managers across these locations.

**Action:** The process started with aggregating all the use cases based on their current support status and any additional functionality that might be required. For example, we needed to consider whether we had the necessary context setup, test running capabilities, assertion mechanisms, and reporting tools to handle the upcoming features. These use cases were then grouped according to the engineering team responsible for that particular domain. I facilitated as many working sessions as possible with these teams to scope out the requirements, identify potential gaps in resourcing, and adjust our plans accordingly. 

Given the dynamic nature of feature development at Apple, where requirements and dependencies could change daily, we had to be extremely flexible. For the annual roadmap exercise, which took about 2-3 weeks, we went through multiple cycles of refinement to ensure that our plans were aligned with the latest developments. By the end of this process, we produced a comprehensive roadmap that was presented to senior leadership in a keynote-style presentation. This presentation was typically delivered by the engineering program manager, with me tagging in subject matter experts from my engineering teams when more detailed technical explanations were required.

**Response:** The result of this process was a highly efficient and adaptable roadmap that allowed us to meet our testing goals consistently. The quarterly roadmap exercises, in particular, became much more streamlined over time, enabling us to complete the necessary planning within a week. However, this rigorous process investment was essential for ensuring that we could meet our objectives in a fast-paced and constantly evolving environment. While the process was challenging, it was also rewarding, as it provided a clear framework for addressing the complex testing needs of a product as sophisticated as Siri."






5. **Can you give an example of a complex technical strategy you had to communicate to non-technical stakeholders? How did you approach this?

**Answer:**
"Communicating complex technical strategies to non-technical stakeholders is a skill that is essential in bridging the gap between technical teams and business leaders. It requires the ability to distill intricate details into clear, understandable concepts while still conveying the importance and impact of the technical work being discussed. One of the most memorable instances where I had to apply this skill was during my time at Warner Bros. Discovery, where I led a major initiative to enhance the platform's recommendation engine using a hierarchical session-based Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model.

**Situation:** The recommendation engine was a critical component of the D+ streaming platform, responsible for curating personalized content for millions of users. We decided to enhance this engine by incorporating a graph database to capture more nuanced relationships between users, content, and interactions. This was a technically complex project that involved integrating multiple data sources, building a sophisticated model to process session data in real-time, and optimizing the model to improve user engagement metrics. The challenge was to communicate this strategy to a group of non-technical stakeholders, including VPs and directors, during an All Hands meeting. These stakeholders needed to understand the value of the project, the changes being made, and how these changes would impact the business.

**Task:** My task was to present the technical strategy behind the new recommendation engine in a way that was accessible and engaging for a non-technical audience. The goal was to secure their buy-in and support for the project while ensuring they understood the potential impact on key business metrics such as user engagement and retention.

**Action:** To prepare for the presentation, I broke down the strategy into three main sections:

1. **Fundamentals of Recommendation Systems:** I began by explaining the basic principles of how recommendation systems work, using simple analogies to relate the technology to everyday experiences. For instance, I likened the recommendation engine to a personalized shopping assistant that learns your preferences over time and makes increasingly accurate suggestions. This helped the audience grasp the core concept without getting bogged down in technical jargon.

2. **How Our Current System Works:** Next, I provided a high-level overview of our existing recommendation engine, explaining how it processed user interactions to suggest content. I focused on the strengths of the current system as well as its limitations, particularly in handling complex user sessions where multiple factors influenced viewing behavior. I used visual aids, such as flowcharts and diagrams, to illustrate the data flow and decision-making process within the system, making it easier for the audience to follow along.

3. **The Proposed Enhancements:** I then introduced the hierarchical session-based RNN model and the graph database integration. To make this accessible, I avoided technical terms and instead focused on the business impact. I explained how the new model would allow us to better understand user behavior in real-time, leading to more accurate and relevant content recommendations. I also highlighted how the graph database would enable us to capture and leverage relationships between different types of content and users, further enhancing the personalization experience. I used before-and-after scenarios to demonstrate the expected improvements in user engagement and retention, backed by preliminary A/B test results that showed a 5% increase in minutes watched per session.

Throughout the presentation, I made sure to pause and invite questions, ensuring that the audience remained engaged and had a clear understanding of the material. I also provided concrete examples of how these enhancements would manifest in the user experience, such as more relevant content being surfaced at the right time, leading to longer viewing sessions and higher satisfaction.

**Response:** The presentation was well-received, with several VPs and directors expressing their excitement about the potential of the new recommendation engine. One director even reached out to me afterward to discuss potential partnership opportunities for related projects. The clear communication of the technical strategy not only secured the necessary buy-in but also generated enthusiasm and support for the initiative across the organization. This project ultimately led to significant improvements in user engagement metrics, validating the importance of effectively communicating complex technical strategies to non-technical stakeholders.”


1. **How have you applied AI/ML to solve real-world problems in your previous roles, and how do you measure success? LLM-based triage and test failure summarization

**Answer:**
"In my role at Apple, I’m responsible for leading the Global Evaluation team within the AIML (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning) organization, particularly focusing on Siri’s functionalities. One of the most impactful projects I led involved enhancing the reliability and efficiency of our automated testing processes. We were running roughly 450,000 tests per week across 40+ product areas and 600+ App Entities and Intents in the lead up to the Apple Intelligence announcement at WWDC. Initially, we faced significant challenges with false positives in our test results, which consumed a lot of engineering resources to manually sift through and identify actual product failures. To address this, I spearheaded the development of a Large Language Model (LLM) based testing framework. 

This framework was innovative in that it automated the generation of test cases and utilized agent-based technology to simulate real-world user interactions. Additionally, it incorporated a system for automated summarization of test failures, which significantly streamlined our root cause analysis process. We integrated this framework with our existing testing pipelines, which covered unit, integration, and end-to-end (E2E) testing across all Siri use cases. The results were remarkable: we saw a 30% reduction in manual intervention, a 20% increase in test coverage, and a substantial improvement in the speed and accuracy of identifying critical issues. These metrics were crucial for us because they directly impacted the stability and performance of Siri, especially during major iOS updates.

Similarly, during my time at Amazon, I worked on designing and implementing a comprehensive ML infrastructure for the Product Assurance, Risk, and Security (PARS) organization. This infrastructure was essential for managing diverse machine learning projects across the company, many of which involved complex classification problems that required rigorous model versioning, dataset management, and online/offline evaluation processes. Prior to this, the average time for experimentation-to-deployment for ML models was around 10 weeks, which was too long given the rapid pace of business needs. By building this infrastructure on AWS SageMaker, I was able to streamline the entire process, reducing the deployment time to just 1 week. This significant reduction was achieved by implementing best practices like automated data lineage tracking, model artifact management, and continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines.

Success in these projects was measured through a combination of technical metrics and business outcomes. At Apple, the key metrics included test coverage, the accuracy of failure detection, and the reduction in manual interventions, all of which were tracked using internal dashboards and regular reporting to senior leadership. At Amazon, success was measured by the time-to-market reduction, the number of successful deployments, and the overall impact on product compliance and safety, which were critical given the scale at which Amazon operates. These projects not only improved operational efficiency but also had a direct impact on customer satisfaction and business performance."


4. How do you approach scaling AI/ML models in a production environment, especially in a high-demand ecosystem like Prime Video?

**Answer:**
"Scaling AI/ML models in a production environment, particularly in a high-demand ecosystem like Prime Video, requires a robust and well-architected infrastructure that can handle large volumes of data, ensure low latency, and maintain high accuracy and reliability. My experience at Amazon, where I designed and implemented an ML infrastructure for the Product Assurance, Risk, and Security (PARS) organization, provides a strong foundation for approaching this challenge.

At Amazon, the first step in scaling our ML models was to build a scalable and flexible infrastructure on AWS SageMaker. This infrastructure was designed to support the entire ML lifecycle, from data ingestion and preprocessing to model training, deployment, and online evaluation. One of the key challenges we faced was the sheer scale of the data we were dealing with—over 1.5 billion products needed to be classified for compliance purposes, with new data being added continuously as the catalog expanded.

To address this, we implemented a data pipeline that could efficiently process and manage this vast amount of information. We utilized AWS Glue for ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) processes, which allowed us to clean and transform the data before

 feeding it into our models. For model training, we leveraged distributed training techniques on SageMaker, which enabled us to train models on large datasets in a fraction of the time it would have taken with traditional methods. This was particularly important because it allowed us to iterate quickly and refine our models based on the latest data.

Deployment was another critical aspect of scaling. We needed to ensure that our models could be deployed in a way that supported real-time inference with minimal latency. To achieve this, we set up an API-based deployment framework that allowed our models to be accessed by various services within Amazon. This framework was designed to handle millions of requests per second, ensuring that our compliance classifications were made in real-time without causing any bottlenecks in the system.

Monitoring and maintenance were also key components of our scaling strategy. We implemented a comprehensive monitoring system that tracked key performance indicators (KPIs) such as model accuracy, inference latency, and system uptime. This allowed us to quickly identify and address any issues that arose, ensuring that our models continued to perform at their best. Additionally, we set up automated retraining pipelines that triggered model updates based on new data, ensuring that our models remained up-to-date and accurate over time.

In a high-demand ecosystem like Prime Video, where user experience is paramount, I would apply a similar approach. The key would be to ensure that our infrastructure can support real-time data processing and deliver accurate, personalized recommendations to millions of users. This would involve not only building a scalable backend infrastructure but also continuously optimizing our models based on user feedback and interaction data. For example, we could implement a feedback loop that captures user interactions in real-time, feeding this data back into our models to improve their accuracy and relevance.

Overall, scaling AI/ML models in a production environment requires a combination of technical expertise, careful planning, and continuous monitoring. My experience at Amazon has equipped me with the skills and knowledge needed to successfully scale AI/ML solutions in a high-demand environment like Prime Video, ensuring that we can deliver a top-notch user experience while maintaining the highest standards of performance and reliability.”


5. **Given the evolving nature of AI/ML technologies, how do you ensure your team stays updated with the latest advancements and integrates them into your projects?

**Answer:**
"In the fast-paced world of AI/ML, staying updated with the latest advancements is not just beneficial—it’s essential to maintaining a competitive edge and delivering high-quality products. Throughout my career, I’ve made it a priority to foster a culture of continuous learning and innovation within my teams, ensuring that we are always on the cutting edge of technology.

At Apple, for instance, I was responsible for leading internal training initiatives that upskilled over 200 engineers on both theoretical and applied aspects of AI/ML, particularly in the context of automated testing for Siri. This involved creating and delivering a series of workshops and training sessions that covered everything from the basics of machine learning to advanced topics like large language models (LLMs) and their application in testing frameworks. These sessions were highly interactive, allowing engineers to work on real-world problems and immediately apply what they learned.

In addition to formal training, I encouraged my team to engage with the broader AI/ML community. We regularly participated in industry conferences, webinars, and workshops, both as attendees and presenters. For example, I led a team that presented our work on LLM-based testing frameworks at a major AI/ML conference, which not only showcased our innovations but also allowed us to exchange ideas with other leading experts in the field. These engagements were invaluable for keeping us informed about the latest trends and breakthroughs in AI/ML.

Another key strategy I employed was to integrate continuous experimentation into our workflow. For instance, at Amazon, I encouraged my team to run pilot projects and A/B tests whenever we encountered a promising new technology or methodology. One such pilot involved using hierarchical session-based RNNs for personalized content recommendations at Warner Bros. Discovery. By running A/B tests on a subset of users, we were able to evaluate the impact of this new approach before rolling it out at scale. This not only mitigated risk but also provided us with concrete data to guide our decision-making.

I also made it a point to stay personally engaged with the latest developments in AI/ML. I followed thought leaders like Andrej Karpathy and actively participated in relevant subreddits and forums, such as those focused on Large Language Models and machine learning innovations. I also kept a close eye on frontier model updates and made it a habit to test out new models and techniques myself, often building small side projects to explore their potential applications. For example, I’ve experimented with Ollama-based scripts to automate certain tasks in my day-to-day work, which not only enhances my own productivity but also keeps me hands-on with the technology.

To ensure that these advancements are effectively integrated into our projects, I implemented a process of regular tech reviews and innovation sprints. During these sprints, teams were encouraged to explore new tools, frameworks, and methodologies, and present their findings to the broader organization. This process not only sparked creativity but also led to tangible improvements in our products. For example, one team’s exploration of automated model retraining led to the implementation of a continuous learning pipeline that significantly improved the accuracy of our predictive models over time.

Ultimately, staying updated with the latest AI/ML advancements requires a proactive and multifaceted approach. By fostering a culture of continuous learning, encouraging experimentation, and staying personally engaged with the technology, I ensure that my team is always at the forefront of AI/ML innovation. This approach not only keeps us competitive but also enables us to deliver state-of-the-art solutions that drive real value for the business and our customers."
# Creating a Unique Rail ID System for Streaming Services

## 1. Define Rail Attributes

- Content type (e.g., shows, movies, documentaries)
- Genre
- Theme
- Viewing history
- User preferences
- Seasonality
- Special events or promotions

## 2. Design Data Schema

```sql
CREATE TABLE rails (
    rail_id VARCHAR(50) PRIMARY KEY,
    rail_name VARCHAR(100),
    rail_type VARCHAR(50),
    creation_date TIMESTAMP,
    last_updated TIMESTAMP,
    active BOOLEAN
);

CREATE TABLE rail_content (
    rail_id VARCHAR(50),
    content_id VARCHAR(50),
    position INT,
    FOREIGN KEY (rail_id) REFERENCES rails(rail_id)
);

CREATE TABLE rail_attributes (
    rail_id VARCHAR(50),
    attribute_key VARCHAR(50),
    attribute_value VARCHAR(100),
    FOREIGN KEY (rail_id) REFERENCES rails(rail_id)
);
```

## 3. Generate Unique Rail IDs

- Use a combination of attributes to create a unique identifier
- Example: `{content_type}_{genre}_{theme}_{YYYYMMDD}_{random_string}`
- Ensure uniqueness through database constraints

## 4. Implement Rail Generation Logic

1. Analyze user data and content metadata
2. Apply business rules to create meaningful rails
3. Generate rail IDs and populate the database tables

## 5. Create API Endpoints

- `/api/rails`: Get all available rails
- `/api/rails/{rail_id}`: Get specific rail details
- `/api/rails/{rail_id}/content`: Get content for a specific rail

## 6. Integrate with Recommendation System

- Use rail IDs as features in the recommendation algorithm
- Update rail content based on user interactions and preferences

## 7. Implement Caching and Performance Optimization

- Cache frequently accessed rails
- Use database indexing for faster queries
- Implement ETL processes for efficient data updates

## 8. Monitoring and Analytics

- Track rail performance metrics (e.g., engagement, click-through rates)
- Set up alerts for underperforming rails
- Create dashboards for rail analytics

## 9. Governance and Maintenance

- Establish processes for creating, updating, and deprecating rails
- Implement version control for rail definitions
- Set up automated tests to ensure data integrity


7. **Describe a situation where you had to adjust your communication style to effectively convey your product vision to different audiences.

**Answer:**
"Adjusting communication styles to suit different audiences is a crucial aspect of effective product management, especially when dealing with complex technical products. One notable instance where I had to make significant adjustments to my communication approach was during my time at Amazon, where I was responsible for leading the Machine Learning University (MLU) initiative. This program was designed to upskill Amazon's product managers in machine learning, ensuring that they could effectively manage and contribute to ML-driven projects across the organization.

**Situation:** The MLU program involved delivering a series of training sessions called 'ML4ProductManagers,' which were tailored to product managers with varying levels of technical expertise. The sessions covered a wide range of topics, including the end-to-end ML lifecycle, identifying problems suitable for ML solutions, writing requirements for ML-driven projects, and analyzing ML outcomes. While these sessions were originally designed for product managers, I was asked to present a version of the course to a group of senior leaders, including VPs and directors, who had different informational needs and priorities.

**Task:** My task was to adapt the existing ML4ProductManagers presentation to make it relevant and engaging for a leadership audience. Unlike product managers, who needed detailed guidance on how to execute ML projects, the leaders were more interested in understanding how to ideate and validate ML projects being presented to them for funding, as well as making strategic trade-off decisions in an environment characterized by uncertainty and rapid change.

**Action:** To tailor the presentation for this new audience, I made several key adjustments:

1. **Shift in Focus:** Instead of delving into the technical details of the ML lifecycle, I focused on the strategic implications of adopting ML solutions. I framed the discussion around high-level concepts such as the potential impact of ML on business outcomes, the importance of aligning ML initiatives with broader company goals, and the risks and opportunities associated with investing in ML projects. This shift in focus ensured that the content was relevant to the audience's strategic responsibilities.

2. **Simplification of Concepts:** I simplified the more technical aspects of the presentation, using analogies and real-world examples to make the concepts more accessible. For instance, when discussing the importance of data quality in ML projects, I compared it to the foundation of a building—if the foundation is weak, the entire structure is at risk. This analogy helped the audience grasp the critical role of data in ML without needing to understand the intricacies of data preprocessing.

3. **Emphasis on Business Impact:** I included case studies and examples from Amazon's own use of ML to demonstrate how these technologies had driven significant business outcomes. For example, I highlighted a project where ML models were used to optimize inventory forecasting, leading to a $30 million reduction in operational costs. These examples resonated with the leadership audience, as they directly linked ML initiatives to tangible business benefits.

4. **Interactive Q&A:** Understanding that this audience might have concerns or specific questions about the strategic direction of ML initiatives, I allocated a significant portion of the session to an interactive Q&A. This allowed the leaders to voice their questions and concerns, which I addressed with tailored responses that linked back to their strategic goals. For instance, when asked about the risks of ML projects failing to deliver expected outcomes, I discussed the importance of pilot projects and A/B testing as ways to mitigate risks and gather evidence before scaling up.

**Response:** The adjusted presentation was well-received by the leadership team, who appreciated the strategic focus and the clear linkage between ML initiatives and business outcomes. One of the directors even reached out to me afterward to discuss potential partnership opportunities for ML projects that I had mentioned during the session. The success of this presentation reinforced the importance of adapting communication styles to the needs and expectations of different audiences. By doing so, I was able to effectively convey the product vision and secure the necessary buy-in and support from key stakeholders, which was crucial for the continued success of the MLU initiative."

8. **What methods do you use to stay informed about market trends and competitive offerings in the AI/ML space?

**Answer:**
"Staying informed about market trends and competitive offerings in the AI/ML space is critical for maintaining a competitive edge and ensuring that the products and solutions I work on are aligned with the latest advancements in the industry. I employ a multi-faceted approach to keep myself updated, combining deep dives into technical resources with broader market analysis and hands-on experimentation.

**Subject Matter Experts and Thought Leaders:** One of my primary sources of information is the work of leading experts in the AI/ML field. I regularly follow thought leaders like Andrej Karpathy, who provides insights into cutting-edge research and practical applications of AI. Additionally, I stay engaged with academic conferences such as NeurIPS and ICML, which are goldmines for the latest research papers and discussions on emerging trends. By following these experts and engaging with their content, I gain a deeper understanding of where the field is heading and how these advancements can be applied to real-world problems.

**Frontier Model Updates:** I also keep a close eye on updates related to frontier models, particularly those that push the boundaries of what AI can do. This includes models like GPT-4 and other large language models that are continuously evolving. Whenever a new model or significant update is released, I make it a point to test it out myself, exploring its capabilities and limitations. For instance, I’ve experimented with Ollama-based scripts to automate various tasks, giving me firsthand experience with the model’s strengths and areas for improvement. This hands-on approach not only keeps me informed but also helps me identify potential applications or improvements for the products I manage.

**Subreddits and Online Communities:** To stay connected with the broader AI/ML community, I actively participate in online forums and subreddits dedicated to machine learning and AI. These communities are excellent for real-time discussions, sharing of resources, and staying informed about what practitioners and researchers are currently focused on. For example, I follow subreddits like r/MachineLearning and r/Ollama, where I can engage in discussions about the latest tools, techniques, and industry developments. These platforms also provide a pulse on what’s trending in the community, which can be a valuable indicator of where the industry might be heading.

**Market and Competitive Analysis:** On the business side, I regularly conduct market and competitive analysis to understand how different companies are positioning their AI/ML offerings. This involves tracking the activities of major players in the AI/ML space, such as Google, Microsoft, and Amazon, as well as emerging startups that might be innovating in niche areas. I analyze their product launches, feature updates, and strategic moves

 to identify trends and gaps in the market. For example, when Amazon launched SageMaker, I studied its features and positioning to understand how it compared with Google’s AI offerings and what impact it might have on the broader AI/ML ecosystem.

**Internal and External Networking:** Networking with peers and industry professionals is another key method I use to stay informed. Within my own organization, I make it a point to connect with colleagues across different departments, including research, engineering, and product management, to share insights and discuss ongoing projects. Externally, I attend industry conferences, webinars, and meetups where I can engage with other professionals and exchange ideas. These interactions often provide valuable insights into how other companies are tackling similar challenges and what strategies they are employing to stay ahead of the curve.

**Continuous Learning:** Finally, I am committed to continuous learning and self-education. I regularly take online courses and attend workshops on new AI/ML techniques, tools, and methodologies. For instance, I recently completed a course on the practical applications of large language models, which provided me with new perspectives on how to leverage these models in different business contexts. This ongoing education helps me stay at the forefront of AI/ML technology and ensures that I can bring fresh ideas and approaches to the products I manage.

**Response:** By combining these methods, I ensure that I am always up-to-date with the latest trends, tools, and techniques in the AI/ML space. This knowledge not only informs my strategic decisions but also allows me to anticipate market shifts and position the products I manage for success in a rapidly evolving landscape. My proactive approach to staying informed has been instrumental in driving innovation and maintaining a competitive edge in the various roles I’ve held throughout my career.”

### **PM Core Skills:**

#### **1. Product Strategy:**
**Question:** *Can you walk us through how you developed and executed the Global Siri roadmap at Apple?*

For the better part of this year and the past year I’ve worked on building out testing frameworks and automated testing for Apple Intelligence (AI) through a number of initiatives, namely related to Apple Intelligence. It has gone through about 4 complete re-architectures so has been a lively space.Nuts and bolts work was tracking requirements to ensure we had automated testing capability (minimum functionality, context setup, working APIs and assertion capability) and coverage with daily stand ups with the engineering team on bringup of those features and tests. This scope of work was then extended to not only AIML use cases, but also the SWE org and all AppEntity and AppIntents (roughly 600+) across component, integration and E2E testing dimensions. The reason why the AIML org owned this instead of SWE, was mainly due to the more capable testing frameworks the Siri org had (due to necessity of our E2E testing mandate).

Situation. Apple was preparing to announce AppleIntelligence at WWDC and giving AppIntent capability for 1P and 3P apps with in-App context. So what do I mean by that… from a 1P perspective this might mean sending Messages context to your on-device LLM for summarization or for 3P this might mean ordering Doordash through voice and the related function calling needed there

Task. Provide TimCook directs with 2x weekly reports on on AppleIntelligence use case pass rates based on automated functional testing. And this was broken down into some sub-categories of what features are actually testable and actual pass/fails and then grouped by domain (Phone, Messages, other 40+), because a fun part of the way Apple operates and the scale we were at was that were no deadlines for when certain features would be available during the development period. You knew it could be within a month and then a feature flag might be turned on at some point. Some large challenges to this was that requirements and dependencies are changing everyday, as well as the underlying build quality (iOS and macOS) and platform. Due to these known issues, we opted to build the testing pyramid up from component testing (AppIntent functionality) —> integ testing (AppIntent + Orchestrator LLM) —> E2E testing (Utterance input to Output) to hillclimb on what is actually ready for customers.

Action. We have a team of 15 engineers (across Cupertino, Ottawa, Seattle, Tokyo and Madrid) and I built out a requirements document for the use cases, context required, expected results and documentation resources and points of contact. By the way, feel free to stop me if I unintentionally go into Apple indoctrination territory and use some unknown acryonyms. So, we had a goal of completing golden use case test bringup within 1.5 weeks, integ testing the following week and E2E testing the week after that for a total of 3 x 600 = 1800 automated test cases that needed to be stable 
Response. Proud to say we hit that goal by largely avoiding the dependency nightmare we were running into with attempting to create only E2E tests for a very fragile, early stage system. This was then used by leadership to guide what was included in WWDC and in the next iOS/macOS release. Happy to answer any questions. 

---

#### **2. Trade-offs and Prioritization:**
**Situation:**
When I joined Warner Bros. Discovery, I was tasked with leading a critical project to enhance the personalization of our streaming platform through what we called North/South or Top/Bottom ranking. The goal was to optimize the vertical content ordering from top to bottom (those grouping rows of shows and movies) displayed to users, making them more relevant and engaging. However, the existing system had significant limitations. Specifically, there was no concept of a unique rail ID, which made it impossible to track and personalize the rails consistently. These rails were generated in multiple ways: manually by editorial teams, through automated filtering rules, or dynamically by our show recommender system, which refreshed content on a predetermined cadence, usually every 2mins. This complexity created challenges in ensuring a seamless and personalized user experience across the platform.

**Task:**
For this I needed to ideate, review, resource, execute and track the launch of page ranking for Warner Bros Discovery streaming service from 0-1, working with my principal engineer partner. Tactically this meant writing a PRFAQ, reviewing it with my own leadership, then broader stakeholder groups until finally reviewing it with the executive team. Once we got past that stage, I created a business requirements doc and began review sessions across several teams, including my tech org (which spanned three teams), editorial, data lake, editorial tech, and quality and A/B testing teams. The success of this project was crucial, as it directly impacted user satisfaction and engagement on the platform.

**Action:**
To address the challenge, I led a multi-faceted approach:

**Rail ID Creation**: The first step was to establish a system for generating unique Rail IDs. I collaborated closely with the data lake team to create a function that combined content type, relevant attributes, timestamp, and a unique identifier for each rail and stored in the rdb. This allowed us to persistently track and manage the performance of each rail across various user sessions and different configurations.
Metadata Storage and Algorithm Development**: We built a comprehensive database to store additional metadata for each rail, such as importance scores, user preferences, content freshness, and engagement rates. I then worked with the engineering team to utilize a hierarchical session-based RNN rankings algorithm that would score these rails based on various factors, ensuring that the most relevant rail ordering was prioritized for each user.
**Cross-Functional Coordination**: Given the project's complexity, I established regular communication cadences to keep all stakeholders aligned. I held daily syncs with direct team leads and engineers to review progress against our deliverables and milestones and address any emerging issues. In addition, I conducted bi-weekly updates with senior leadership, where I focused on the strategic "What" and "Why" of our progress. This approach ensured that leadership was informed without getting bogged down in technical minutiae, but I was always ready to dive into specifics when required.
**Customer Feedback Integration**: To ensure our solution was customer-focused, we integrated customer watch history into the recommender system. We experimented with different metadata inputs and optimized for various target metrics such as Hours Watched, CTR, and Impressions. For offline metrics like NDCG, Recall@10, MRR@10, and Precision@10 were used to evaluate the effectiveness of our recommendations and guide further iterations.
**Team Engagement and Development**: Beyond the core development activities, I facilitated brown bag sessions to keep the broader team informed about model iterations and our progress. These sessions were also instrumental in fostering cross-functional collaboration, particularly with the Editorial and Editorial Tech teams. I ensured that manual overrides for promoted rails were respected within the system, balancing business needs with the recommender’s automated outputs.

**Result:**
The project culminated in a significant enhancement to the personalization capabilities of the Warner Bros. Discovery streaming platform. The introduction of unique Rail IDs and the robust ranking algorithm led to a measurable improvement in user engagement. Specifically, our A/B testing showed a 5% increase in Minutes Watched per customer over a one-month period. This success allowed us to roll out the system across other locales, including Europe, APAC, and South America, with adjustments made for GDPR compliance where necessary. The project not only met its objectives but also laid the groundwork for future personalization initiatives.

---

#### **3. Data-Driven Decisions:**
**Question:** *Can you share an example where data played a significant role in product decisions?*

- **Situation:** At Amazon Web Services (AWS), I was responsible for creating and launching machine learning (ML) models that classified over 1.5 billion products for compliance purposes. This was part of Amazon’s global compliance initiative to ensure that products sold on the platform met legal and safety standards. We faced significant challenges with the existing manual review process, which was not only slow but also inconsistent, leading to missed compliance issues that could expose Amazon to legal risks.

- **Task:** My task was to develop an ML infrastructure that could automate the classification of products at scale, improving both the accuracy and speed of compliance checks. I needed to ensure that the models could handle diverse product categories while maintaining high levels of precision and recall. One of the key challenges was demonstrating the value of these models to senior leadership by using data to justify the investment in automation.

- **Action:** I built an ML pipeline using Amazon SageMaker, which allowed us to automate the entire model lifecycle—from data gathering and preprocessing to model deployment and A/B testing. The models were trained on large datasets of product images and descriptions, and I implemented a version control system to track the performance of each iteration. To make data-driven decisions, I introduced several key metrics, including precision, recall, and F1 scores, to measure the accuracy of the models.

  I also set up a continuous A/B testing framework to evaluate the models’ performance in real-time. This allowed us to compare the new automated classification system with the existing manual process. By tracking the number of compliance violations caught and the reduction in false positives, I could demonstrate the value of the ML models.

- **Result:** The results were impressive. We reduced the time-to-market for new models from 10 weeks to just 1 week by automating the entire ML pipeline. The models achieved an 85% precision rate, significantly reducing false positives and ensuring that we caught 500,000 additional compliance violations annually. This led to $30 million in annual savings for Amazon, as we minimized costly legal issues and product returns. By presenting these data points to senior leadership, I was able to secure additional funding for expanding the ML infrastructure across other product areas.

---

### **PM Tech Skills:**

#### **1. Technical Collaboration:**
**Question:** *Can you explain how you collaborated with engineers to ensure successful product delivery at Apple?*

- **Situation:** At Apple, one of my core responsibilities was leading the automated qualification process for Siri’s testing across over 600 AppIntents and AppEntities. These are critical to Siri’s functionality, as they allow users to interact with third-party apps via voice commands. Ensuring that these functions worked seamlessly across all Apple devices was crucial, especially ahead of major product launches like WWDC.

- **Task:** The task was to design a comprehensive testing infrastructure that could automatically validate all Siri use cases across different product areas. This required close collaboration with engineering teams based in Cupertino, Seattle,

 Tokyo, and Madrid. We had a distributed engineering team, and aligning everyone on the same testing strategy was challenging, particularly because new features were often being developed simultaneously.

- **Action:** I took the lead in developing a detailed testing strategy that included component-level testing, integration testing, and end-to-end (E2E) testing. I worked closely with the engineering teams to create a suite of automated tests that could be run continuously as new features were developed. I established daily stand-up meetings and weekly syncs to ensure that everyone was aligned on the roadmap and testing progress. For instance, when testing AppIntent functionalities like ordering food through a third-party app, I collaborated with the engineering teams to build APIs and context-aware testing frameworks that could simulate real user scenarios.

  I also led the effort to build internal documentation, including requirements documents and test case outlines, to ensure that all engineers understood the scope of the testing. I made sure that any gaps in the testing infrastructure were addressed early in the development cycle, minimizing the risk of late-stage bugs.

- **Result:** Thanks to this collaboration, we were able to automate over 1,800 test cases within 1.5 weeks, covering all Siri use cases in time for the WWDC launch. The automated testing framework I implemented significantly reduced the time required for manual testing and improved the overall stability of the system. This allowed us to confidently include new Siri features in major product releases without fear of critical bugs slipping through the cracks.

---


---

#### **3. Document Writing:**
**Question:** *Can you describe your experience in writing technical product documents?*

- **Situation:** At Warner Bros. Discovery, I was tasked with launching a new personalized recommendation system for the streaming platform. This project required clear communication across multiple teams, including engineering, data science, and marketing, as well as executive leadership. The challenge was to distill the complex technical details into documents that both engineers and non-technical stakeholders could understand.

- **Task:** My primary task was to write a detailed PRFAQ (Press Release and Frequently Asked Questions) that outlined the vision, strategy, and technical requirements for the recommendation system. Following that, I needed to create detailed product requirement documents (PRDs), EPICs, and user stories for the engineering team. These documents had to be comprehensive enough to cover all edge cases while being accessible to non-technical teams for buy-in.

- **Action:** I started by drafting the PRFAQ, which was focused on the business case for personalized recommendations. This document was shared with the executive team to secure approval and funding. Once approved, I worked with the engineering and data science teams to create more detailed technical documentation. The PRD outlined the functional and non-functional requirements of the system, including data processing pipelines, model training, and integration with the existing content management system.

  I also wrote EPICs and user stories in Jira, which provided the engineering team with a clear roadmap for implementation. These documents were living documents, updated regularly as we encountered new challenges or adjusted our approach based on user feedback.

**Result:** The documentation I created enabled seamless collaboration across teams, ensuring that everyone was aligned on the project’s goals and timelines. The recommendation system was successfully launched, leading to a significant increase in user engagement, with a 3-5% lift in key metrics like minutes watched per user. The clear and comprehensive documentation was crucial to keeping the project on track and ensuring that all stakeholders were informed throughout the development process.
Resume Walkthrough
Common thread of ML/AI-based products.
Apple
Functional testing for all Apple Intelligence features (not only Siri), which encompassed 40+ domain areas (Phone, Messages, etc.) and 600+ AppEntity and AppIntents, across 52 locales and 6 device groups. It gets big quick.. Which is basically are the 1P and platform features doing what we think they are. 
Automated functional testing for Apple Intelligence
LLM-based triage and root cause analysis
LLM-based documentation handling
Quip API to track changes from upstream partner’s documentation —> LLM understanding —> graphdb with engineers and ownership area —> daily standup notes on changes from upstream partners from the previous day
Automated functional testing for Siri in 42 locales, across all devices, in all 50+ product area groupings
Warner Bros. Discovery
Because You Watched
Page Ranking
Hierarchical session-based RNN
Global expansion to Brazil, EMEA and APAC
Amazon
PARS
ERICA
ML Commons
AWS AI
AWS Embark
CoreML
Machine Learning University (Worked closely with the Eider team, that eventually became Sagemaker notebooks)
Zulily
Compliance project, related to ML-generated pricing


——
Behavior
Can you walk us through the process you used to develop and execute the Global Siri roadmap at Apple?
Situation - Ya, it’s a large undertaking that takes place quarterly with another one annually, mainly in relation to WWDC. So a lot of planning, and a lot of planning to plan. The MLSEE org oversaw all Siri use cases on all devices/iOS. Think of it as a giant wrapper around the entire Apple ecosystem. My role was not prioritizing what those use cases were but planning for the tooling and resourcing to test those features, with a focus on functional testing at a few levels (unit test reporting, integration testing, E2E testing being the primary focus )
Task - Our org has around 100 engineers total and maybe 400 contractors. It starts from the problem space or in this case the use cases for the next release. There is an initial prioritization and knowledge sharing with my VP and manager and then with the Engineering managers based out of Seattle, Cupertino, Japan and Madrid.
Action - These use cases are aggregated based on that are currently supported and what additional functionality we might need (context setup, test running, assertion capability, reporting). Then that list is grouped for the engineer team that owns that particular domain. I have as many working sessions as possible then for scoping and resourcing to support those use cases and aggregate it back up. See if/where there are resourcing gaps. Fashion is never finished, and the use cases have probably changed so there are a couple cycles of this. For the annual process it takes between 2-3 weeks but for quarterly we’ve got pretty good at it and can have what we need in a week. At the end of this process is a giant keynote presentation that usually the engineering program manager presented and I tagged in my engineer partners whenever they would have a better answer.
Response - We always met the process, however quarterly planning is a severe process investment to do right. Honestly, I just like an annual process that you report on and make changes in prioritization as they come up.
How did you ensure that the ML infrastructure you designed at Amazon met the needs of diverse problem spaces? 
Situation - A lot of meeting with stakeholders and being a potential customer of it ourselves on the team I was on. I was part of a newly created org called PARS that was an aggregation of a bunch of different orgs to track all risk and safety issues across the Amazon catalog. This org had many different ML projects (mainly classification problems) and we found, through attending org-level reviews, these teams were not following best practices (dataset, model versioning, adequate metric reporting) and leadership was becoming frustrated with missed deadlines or sort of incomprehensible results in order to go/no-go decisions. The main culprit was using offline evaluation metrics, without any human evaluation to launch products.
Task - came from the now defunct research org of Amazon called CoreML and then over at AWS in their AI org so was familiar with how easy it would be to help with the undifferentiated problems the org was dealing with. 
Action - So, I met with all of my partner engineering groups hearing what their problems were, with an average time of 10 weeks experimentation-to-deployment.I then wrote a PRFAQ on an ML infrastructure stack, built on SageMaker, to track 5-6 stages of ml development 1) Data and data heritage 2) EDA, ETL and artifact storage 3) model development and artifact tracking 4) deployment through an API or offline 4) Alerting 5) Online Evaluation (A/B test through the endpoint)
Response - We managed to lower that barrier to entry from 10 weeks to 1 week for presentation to leadership in the required format.
How do you typically gather and incorporate client feedback into product development?
Situation - Through a few methods 1) listening sessions on problems or opportunities that are not yet solved 2) in bulk through qualitative methods like qualtric surveys with likert scaling and 3) quantitative methods to identify where issues are occurring, e.g. high predicted risk for amazon products and 4) Just using the product a lot to identify gaps.
Task - Some examples of this were the quarterly roadmap planning with all the engineer orgs at Apple, and another was creation of page ranking at Warner Bros Discovery (we could see our users wanted to engage more but there were a lot of trash shows they were being shown besides what was relevant)
Action -
Response -
Can you give an example of a complex technical strategy you had to communicate to non-technical stakeholders? How did you approach this?
Situation - Ya, there have been a few. One had to do with an all hands at Warner Brother Discovery on how we were incorporating additional features through a graphdb for the recommender system on the streaming service.
Task/Action - We used a hierarchical session-based RNN at the time. As it was an All Hands, I first needed to clearly state how recommenders worked (show, person, interaction), how our service worked and then what changes we’d be making to incorporate more user features to improve recommendations. The purpose was buy-in but also to just showcase our work to everyone. 
Action - From there, it was showing A/B tests we’ve done on how improved recommendations were from a group of testers that we have LiveOn our beta build. 
Response - Positive response and we went ahead, and even including some item-based additional features into our model since this was shown as such low hanging fruit to increase engagement.
What do you see as the biggest challenges in AI safety today, and how would you address them in this role?
Situation - The biggest challenge is staying aligned with a dynamic Overton window that swings between the utility and dangers quite quickly. 
Task - I’d address this issue through collaboration and transparency both internal to OpenAI and externally on how users are interacting with these models post-release. The preparedness framework does a good job with the high level categories (Cybersecurity, CBRN, Persuasion, Model Autonomy), but providing drill down metrics on emerging trends around those categories could provide some insight on driving AI safety with OpenAI partners.
Action - From those insights, policy decisions on how to disincentivize, stop or pre-empt could be created altogether. 
Describe a situation where you had to adjust your communication style to effectively convey your product vision to different audiences.
Situation - I gave regular 2-3 hour classes called ML4ProductManagers that ran through common use cases, how to framework ML-driven projects etc. I was asked to present this to a leadership group (group of VPs and directors) and recognized I needed to make some adjustments.
Task - The current deck was focused on the PM’s ownership area such as identifying problems, solutions, requirement writing, analysis, etc… whereas leadership would be more focused on how to ideate and validate projects being presented to them for funding and making trade-off decisions in a stochastic environment.
Action - I made these changes
Response - The class went great and even had a director reach out to me afterwards on partnership opportunities for projects that I was working on in the class (RallyPoint suicide prevention)
Apple (Current)
AIML/Siri
For the better part of this year and the past year I’ve worked on building out testing frameworks and automated testing for Apple Intelligence (AI) through a number of initiatives, namely related to Apple Intelligence. It has gone through about 4 complete re-architectures so has been a lively space.
Nuts and bolts work was tracking requirements to ensure we had automated testing capability (minimum functionality, context setup, working APIs and assertion capability) and coverage with daily stand ups with the engineering team on bringup of those features and tests. This scope of work was then extended to not only AIML use cases, but also the SWE org and all AppEntity and AppIntents (roughly 600+) across component, integration and E2E testing dimensions. The reason why the AIML org owned this instead of SWE, was mainly due to the more capable testing frameworks the Siri org had (due to necessity of our E2E testing mandate).
Situation. Apple was preparing to announce AppleIntelligence at WWDC and giving AppIntent capability for 1P and 3P apps with in-App context. So what do I mean by that… from a 1P perspective this might mean sending Messages context to your on-device LLM for summarization or for 3P this might mean ordering Doordash through voice and the related function calling needed there
Task. Provide TimCook directs with 2x weekly reports on on AppleIntelligence use case pass rates based on automated functional testing. And this was broken down into some sub-categories of what features are actually testable and actual pass/fails and then grouped by domain (Phone, Messages, other 40+), because a fun part of the way Apple operates and the scale we were at was that were no deadlines for when certain features would be available during the development period. You knew it could be within a month and then a feature flag might be turned on at some point. Some large challenges to this was that requirements and dependencies are changing everyday, as well as the underlying build quality (iOS and macOS) and platform. Due to these known issues, we opted to build the testing pyramid up from component testing (AppIntent functionality) —> integ testing (AppIntent + Orchestrator LLM) —> E2E testing (Utterance input to Output) to hillclimb on what is actually ready for customers.
Action. We have a team of 15 engineers (across Cupertino, Ottawa, Seattle, Tokyo and Madrid) and I built out a requirements document for the use cases, context required, expected results and documentation resources and points of contact. By the way, feel free to stop me if I unintentionally go into Apple indoctrination territory and use some unknown acryonyms. So, we had a goal of completing golden use case test bringup within 1.5 weeks, integ testing the following week and E2E testing the week after that for a total of 3 x 600 = 1800 automated test cases that needed to be stable 
Response. Proud to say we hit that goal by largely avoiding the dependency nightmare we were running into with attempting to create only E2E tests for a very fragile, early stage system. This was then used by leadership to guide what was included in WWDC and in the next iOS/macOS release. Happy to answer any questions. 
Some other projects that I have built Proofs of Concept are:
LLM-based Triage
Situation. Apple code quality’s main issue is signal through all of the noise. There was a quote that iOS is roughly 1 billion lines of code. When issues arise, how can an engineer quickly isolate and identify the issue, determine the blast radius and pull in partners/fix the issue?
Task. Create a PoC that finetunes an Apple-specific model that reads in sysdiagnose info, org information and high level documentation to create 3 possible Root Causes. I did this by using the mlx library to train and the github api to pull the necessary data for all orgs and repos. Then wrote a function calling script to query Apple’s entire org structure, convert to a graphdb and return the likely owning team and Points of Contact/slack handles
Action. I built a simple streamlit app that fed this data in, hosted it on a spare Mac Studio we had sitting in our Madrid office (with ollama) and offered it up to some partner engineering teams to drop radars (lira tickets) into to see if it helped. 
Response. For the top prediction, it was accurate 72% of the time however what I quickly realized doing this at scale was that the chief limiting factor was for our partner engineering teams. They were awash with tickets. The issue is all of the noise and priorities. 
LLM-based evaluation
Situation. Apple spends A LOT of money on manual testing for new features and also regression testing for fairly simple use cases.
Task. Lower the burden on manual testers
Action. I ideated with an engineer in my org on a very simple Input Utterance and Output pair assertion capability. So what you say to Siri and what the output is (text response, API action and on screen references) to assert on whether 
Response. Awe realized that the chief constraint is not in identification of these bugs, due to iOS’s 1+ billion code base… the chief constraint is bandwidth/attention of the owning product engineers
Unified Siri Testing (UST) a framework of helper functions to establish on-device context necessary for testing (e.g. photos or texts present on device to test reply functionality or having flight details in an email for Spotlight to then index)
Warner Bros. Discovery
Recommender systems
Page Ranking
Situation. Needed parity with competitors for personalized page creation (the order of the rails that you see) for streaming customers. We saw lifts of up to 3-5% for personalized rails (those horizontal strips that you click through) on key engagement metrics, so anticipated the same or greater return
Task. Ideate, review, resource, execute and track the launch of page ranking for Warner Bros Discovery streaming service from 0-1. Tactically this meant writing a PRFAQ, reviewing it with my own leadership, then broader stakeholder groups until finally reviewing it with the executive team. O
Action. Once we had buy-in I created a business doc for the functional and non-functional requirements that went a level deeper than the PRFAQ and was engineer-focused. Additionally, met with the PMs from the partner teams (e.g. our upstream data lake team and downstream editorial team) on the timeline and requirements to ensure there weren’t any gaps. From there it was execution with daily standup and weekly check-ins with leadership. Some challenges we came across nearing to the delivery date was the lack of an inherent idea of a cell or rail ID as those were amorphous and ever changing either due to manual or existing rule heuristics. That data team had challenges in meeting that deadline, due to some GDPR related reasons and we would not hit our deadline due to this. So we were faced with the old problem of 1) de-scope 2) extend the deadline 3) add more engineers (which sometimes slows things down or 4) muscle down as much as possible. They said they would need an additional week and we dove into the details on the work needed and estimated it would take roughly just as long from pulling engineers over from other projects and onboard them, so I presented to leadership on the choices and justifications and ended up pushing out the A/B by a week. 
Response. The A/B test results resulted in a 5% lift in Minutes Watched per customer over the course of the 1 month A/B test and we expanded it all other pages besides the landing page/hero page. We then rolled out to other locales (EU, APAC and South America) while making adjustments to our opt out system for GDPR compliance in the EU. 
Because You Watched
Metrics
Minutes Watched (to limit prioritizing clickbait like using Click through Rate or impressions, used a hierarchical RNN)
Precison@k
Recall@k
F1@k
NCDG (Normalized Cumulative Discounted Gain)
Amazon
ML Deployment Platform (ML Commons)
Lots of bespoke ML models being created that did not follow best practices (versioning, offline and online evaluation tracking, logging and alerting) for a lot of undifferentiated work.
Product Safety classification - particularly an issue due to the rise of 3rd party popularity and inquiries from the CPSC
Needed to define/identify what was safe/unsafe based on amazon’s data lake (Andes). Then safety classifications for each. Then from time of purchase to safety incident based on historical data. This was working with the quality assurance org at Amazon, ML science team and engineer team to product ionize. 
Chained model: 1) Binary 2) Safety classification 3) Likelihood of occurrence in next 3 months. Offline evaluation for the past year was that this was 82% accurate at a time where safety was a top issue within Amazon. We launched it in the product categories where had the most safety incidents historically
Impact was that we launched this in our highest risk product areas (supplements, electronics, etc.) Then had associates reach out to these sellers to request product testing where we saw a significant reduction (1.2%) over a 3 month period of these safety incidents
AWS
AWS Embark
This was born out of Machine Learning University as we were re-orged over to AWS to offer this to high profile AWS clients (basically people who spent a lot. Military, Warner Bros, etc.). I drew up a roadmap for generalizing this beyond Amazon-specific use cases so it could be applicable to each customer, first starting with an ideation workshop, then classes on how to solve these problems, then partnering with a solution architect to create a PoC to help make a go/no-go decision.
Machine Learning University
Accelerator program, 3-day program focused on a specific ML domain like NLP, computer vision, decision trees and a lot more. 
Created a kaggle-like leaderboard to crowdsource regression and classification use cases

